TL;DR.
This week in 30 seconds:.
Cloudflare + AI Layoffs: 1,100 employees (20% of the workforce) are being laid off — officially not due to cost pressure, but due to AI productivity gains.
At the same time: record quarter with $639.8M in revenue.
Anthropic Enterprise Venture: Together with Blackstone, Goldman Sachs, and five other financial investors, Anthropic is founding a new company to bring Claude to mid-market enterprises — with embedded AI engineers on-site.
Mythos finds 423 Firefox bugs: Anthropic's security model helped Mozilla fix 423 vulnerabilities in April alone — including a 15-year-old HTML parser flaw.
The same month a year ago: 31.
Nvidia invests $40B: In the first months of 2026 alone, Nvidia has committed $40B in AI equity deals — $30B of that in OpenAI.
Analysts are warning of circular capital flows.
Story of the Week.
"Getting Fitter" as Grounds for Dismissal – Cloudflare's AI Paradox
On May 8, 2026, Cloudflare reported a record quarter — and simultaneously laid off 20 percent of its workforce .
1,100 employees are losing their jobs.
And the company says it openly: not losses, not market downturns — AI productivity gains made these positions obsolete.
CEO Matthew Prince put it internally like this: "Just because you're fit doesn't mean you can't get fitter" .
No euphemism, no restructuring label — a direct admission.
Since November 2025, Prince has been describing internally a "tipping point" at which teams suddenly became "two, ten, even a hundred times more productive" .
Internal AI usage rose 600% in three months — and that didn't leave headcount decisions unaffected.
The numbers speak for themselves: Q1 2026 brought $639.8M in revenue, up 34% year-over-year .
It's the strongest quarter in the company's history.
At the same time, the net loss rose from $53.2M to $62M — a sign that the layoffs are driven primarily by strategic repositioning rather than cost-cutting pressure .
All areas except sales with directly measurable revenue accountability are affected.
What comes after the layoff?
Prince announced that Cloudflare will have more employees in 2027 than in 2026  — both a CEO promise and a PR signal, verifiable only in 18 months.
That's the stated rhythm: first efficiency through AI, then growth into new areas.
Not permanent headcount reduction — but a recalibration that first lays off, then rehires, for different roles.
Why this matters for us: This is one of the most prominent and direct public acknowledgments that a profitable tech company is explicitly and unambiguously naming AI efficiency as the primary driver of a mass layoff .
Earlier cases like IBM (2023) or Amazon (2024) cited AI as one of several factors — Cloudflare makes it the central narrative.
Not recession, not industry crisis — technology.
The narrative from many companies that AI creates more jobs than it destroys now has a concrete, high-profile counterexample.
For IT professionals, knowledge workers, and everyone in support-adjacent roles, this is a signal that should be taken seriously.
Coincidentally: The US IT sector lost 13,000 jobs in April 2026, and the IT unemployment rate rose from 3.6% to 3.8% .
A single month is not a statistically valid basis for a trend conclusion — monthly fluctuations of ±5,000–8,000 IT positions are historically normal.
As a data point, however, it shows that AI-driven restructuring is measurably arriving in the industry.
Bottom Line: The question is no longer whether AI displaces jobs.
The question is at what pace, in which areas — and whether companies communicate as transparently as Cloudflare, or hide the same decisions behind restructuring euphemisms.
More Top Stories.
Anthropic + Blackstone + Goldman: Claude for the Mid-Market.
Anthropic is founding a new, yet-to-be-named company together with Blackstone, Hellman & Friedman, Goldman Sachs, General Atlantic, Apollo, GIC, and Sequoia Capital .
The goal: bringing Claude to companies that have so far fallen through the cracks — community banks, manufacturing businesses, regional hospitals.
The model is interesting: not pure software licensing, but embedded "Applied AI Engineers" on-site with the customer .
Anthropic is positioning itself between large consultancies like Accenture and Deloitte on one side and self-service API access on the other.
CFO Krishna Rao puts it precisely: "Enterprise demand for Claude is significantly outpacing any single delivery model" .
The new company explicitly targets firms that don't have the internal resources to deploy frontier AI independently .
For the BKS Lab context, this means: the market for AI implementation services is growing massively right now — and Anthropic itself is becoming a competitor in the consulting segment.
Anthropic Mythos: AI Finds 423 Firefox Bugs – Including One 15 Years Old.
Anthropic's security model Mythos helped Mozilla fix 423 bugs in April 2026 alone .
In April 2025 it was 31 — an increase of 1,265% in twelve months.
Among them: a 15-year-old vulnerability in the HTML parser and critical sandbox vulnerabilities with bug bounties of up to $20,000 .
Mythos creates compromised code patches and uses them to automatically test its own security boundaries — a self-referential approach with no human equivalent to date .
Mozilla engineers still write all the actual patches; automation of patching itself is not yet possible.
Brian Grinstead, Distinguished Engineer at Mozilla, sums it up: "These things are actually just suddenly very good" .
The caveat: the same tool that finds bugs could also benefit attackers .
Mythos is a dual-use tool — Mozilla uses it defensively.
Anyone deploying it offensively finds the same vulnerabilities.
The 12 documented flaws are now public — a deliberate step toward transparency, but one that simultaneously shows what potential AI security models would have for attackers before patches are available.
GPT-5.5 Instant: OpenAI Sets New ChatGPT Standard.
OpenAI has rolled out GPT-5.5 Instant as the new default model for all ChatGPT users .
The predecessor GPT-5.3 Instant remains available to paying users for three more months.
API access runs via the alias  .
The benchmarks are solid: hallucination reduction in sensitive areas by 52.5%, AIME 2025 Math Benchmark at 81.2 (vs. 65.4 for the predecessor, +24%), MMMU-Pro Multimodal Reasoning at 76 (vs. 69.2, +10%) .
Particularly relevant: the new memory system draws on past conversations, files, and Gmail — with explicit display of sources and deletion options for users .
The context behind this is revealing: OpenAI faced massive user backlash when retiring GPT-4o — many users publicly described the model as their "best friend" .
The new rollout is communicated correspondingly more carefully.
The memory system is a strategic move: anyone who has their ChatGPT history and files integrated doesn't simply switch to an alternative.
Quick Hits.
Briefly noted:.
Claude Code: Limits doubled, SpaceX deal: Anthropic has doubled rate limits for Claude Code across all plans (Pro, Max, Team, Enterprise) and lifted peak-hour restrictions .
Additionally, the Colossus-1 deal with SpaceX: 220,000+ NVIDIA GPUs, 300+ megawatts of compute — available "within the month."
This brings Anthropic's total compute commitments to Amazon (5 GW), Google/Broadcom (5 GW), Microsoft/NVIDIA ($30B), and now SpaceX .
OpenAI Ads Manager: ChatGPT officially opens to advertisers — self-serve beta for US businesses with CPC/CPM bidding, Dentsu, Omnicom, WPP, and Adobe as launch partners .
Goal: $2.5B in ad revenue in 2026, long-term $100B by 2030.
The era of ad-free AI assistants is ending — and with it, new questions about the commercial use of user data for targeting and personalization.
IT Unemployment April 2026: The US IT sector lost 13,000 positions in April, with the rate rising from 3.6% to 3.8% .
The Cloudflare layoffs fall in a month where AI-driven restructuring is becoming measurable — one month alone doesn't prove a structural trend, but the pattern is accumulating.
Tool of the Week.
Anthropic Finance Agents — 10 Production-Ready Templates for Financial Services.
Anthropic has released ten directly deployable Claude agent templates for the financial sector .
Split into two areas:.
Research & Client Coverage: Pitch Builder, Meeting Preparer, Earnings Reviewer, Model Builder, Market Researcher.
Finance & Operations: Valuation Reviewer, General Ledger Reconciler, Month-End Closer, Statement Auditor, KYC Screener.
Particularly relevant: the integration of Moody's MCP delivers credit ratings and data on 600+ million companies directly into Claude .
Microsoft 365 is now GA — Claude works natively in Excel, PowerPoint, and Word, with Outlook to follow.
Claude Opus 4.7 reaches 64.37% on the Vals AI Finance Agent Benchmark, currently the industry leader according to Anthropic .
The practical value: instead of investing weeks in prompt engineering for finance use cases, there are production-ready templates as a starting point.
Anyone looking to deploy in financial services saves significant time.
Explore Finance Agents
Fail of the Week.
$400M Snap-Perplexity: Announced, Never Delivered, Quietly Buried
In November 2025, a $400M partnership between Snap and Perplexity was announced with fanfare: AI search directly into the Snapchat chat interface, cash plus equity over one year .
In Q1 2026, the collaboration ended according to Snap's own statement "amicably" — before any broad rollout occurred.
A limited live test ran, but agreement on the broader rollout was never reached .
The official wording from Snap's quarterly report: "amicably ended the relationship in Q1 – sales guidance assumes no contribution from Perplexity" .
No statement on the reasons, no explanation for the failure.
$400M announced, press releases generated, expectations raised — and then: silence.
Why this is a fail: Not the failure of the partnership itself, but the communication around it.
Tech partnerships fail — that's normal.
But a $400M announcement with no subsequent transparency about why it ended damages trust in both companies.
Investor relations learns about it as a footnote in the quarterly report.
In 2026, that's not acceptable communication practice.
Number of the Week.
$40,000,000,000
Nvidia's AI equity investments in the first months of 2026 alone .
The breakdown: including $30B in OpenAI, $3.2B in Corning (fiber optics for data centers), $2.1B in IREN (data center operator) — the remainder distributed across two dozen other startups .
Nvidia is no longer merely a chip seller — it's a strategic financial investor financing its own ecosystem.
Analysts like Matthew Bryson of Wedbush Securities warn of what they call "circular capital flows" : Nvidia invests in GPU customers, who use the capital to purchase more Nvidia GPUs.
The counterargument is legitimate: strategic investments in one's own ecosystem are established practice among tech giants — comparable to Apple's or Microsoft's venture programs running alongside massive R&D spending.
The question is not whether this strategy is legitimate, but whether the feedback loop will one day sustain the valuations.
A self-reinforcing loop — until it isn't.
Reading List.
For the weekend:.
1.  Cloudflare says AI made 1,100 jobs obsolete  — TechCrunch's analysis of Cloudflare's quarter is the most precise account of the AI layoff paradox: why a record quarter and mass layoffs are not a contradiction, but the new normal.
Required reading for anyone engaged in workforce discussions.
(7 min)
2.  How Anthropic's Mythos rewrote Firefox's cybersecurity approach  — Mozilla engineers explain concretely how an AI security model finds 15-year-old bugs — and why the same technology is also of interest to attackers.
Rarely such an honest assessment of a dual-use tool.
(8 min)
3.  Nvidia has already committed $40B to equity AI deals this year  — TechCrunch explains the investment strategy behind Nvidia's $40B equity offensive and why analysts use the word "circular" when discussing Jensen Huang's capital deployment.
(5 min)
Next Week.
What's coming:.
Cloudflare Wave: Following the public acknowledgment of AI-driven layoffs, more companies are likely to follow — either with similar openness or with more euphemism.
Coverage of AI workforce impacts will intensify.
OpenAI Ads Beta Expansion: The self-serve ad platform is in beta for US customers — first results and reactions from the advertising industry are expected.
Anthropic Enterprise Venture: Following the announcement of the new company with Blackstone & Co., names, operational details, and initial customer discussions are expected.
The race for the SMB market begins.
This newsletter was researched and written with AI-assisted support.
Images generated with  Pollinations.ai .